ds_notes.md, before:

# My notes for the Codeup Data Science course

## Foundational Knowledge
- AI vs ML vs DL: Machine Learning is a model adjustment tool that observes data, makes predictions using a model, and adjusts the model to make better predictions. The code to set this up is written by humans. Machine Learning is not entirely separate from AI- AI is an umbrella term for the automated handling of conditionals. Deep Learning is a specific application of Machine Learning that involves three or more layers of hidden (not human-designed) neural network nodes- the flexibility of Deep Learning allows systems to adjust to input in ways that humans can’t precisely code themselves.
- Parameters, hyperparameters, features, targets: A feature is an input, a parameter is a machine- or human-set portion of a model, and a target is the output. Hyperparameters are human adjustments to a model in order to help it better reach the correct target.

## CLI:
- Access the MySQL database (-p prompts for password): -u username -p -h IP-address
- code filename.filetype 
- - opens VS Code with specified file (creates new one if not exist)
- JupyterNB issues... You can use Command + T to open tabs in Terminal so you don't have to stop JupyterNB processes

## SQL
### Basic Syntax
- show databases;
- use database_name;
- show tables;
- describe table_name;
- select column_name from table_name;
- - you can select * from table_name, or specify multiple columns
- - you can filter to an entry using WHERE, select * from table_name where condition_statment
- - you can also create aliases for columns, select column_name AS Column from table_name;
### Functions
- SUBSTR(string, index, step_number)
- - index starts before the position is read (first character is at index 1), step_number = 1 reads one character from index
### WHERE
- Used to filter the database with conditional statements before the data is pulled down
- Great for simple conditionals and also allows subqueries
### ORDER BY
- Used to order the output column by ASC or DESC order
- - DESC is reverse-alphabetical (Z is first)
- - DESC is highest-to-lowest number
### GROUP BY
- Analyze records (rows) based on specified column
- Used to run aggregate functions on multiple records based on similar value in the column 
- - aggregate functions: avg(), min(), max(), std(), etc
- - avg(numbers_column) would return average of all values
- - select numbers_column, avg(numbers_column) from numbers GROUP BY numbers_column would return nothing very useful, it would return each unique number's average (average of 5 is 5)
### JOIN
- Used to temporarily merge tables on a similar column
- INNER uses AND logic, LEFT / RIGHT use OR logic and prepend/append, the FROM table is indicated LEFT or RIGHT
- ON vs USING() - ON preserves the linked key while USING() merges the linked keys into one column
- - use the USING() function to merge same-name columns, but this will throw an error if two tables have more than one similar column name
### SUBQUERIES
- Flexible tool to return a query's results to a query
- Often used in WHERE clause, example: WHERE emp_no IN (SELECT emp_no FROM employees WHERE to_date > curdate())
### CASE 
- Used to temporarily create a column from scratch with conditional assignment of records
- uses WHEN condition THEN append new info ELSE append new info END AS new column name
- use CASE in SELECT statement
### HAVING
- Used to filter after records are extracted/sliced
- - Example: With GROUP BY colname, only show a few of the rows
- to filter results to a specific THEN. example: HAVING item_type = 'Specialty Item'
### Temporary Tables
#### Overview
- Used to create a new table, very flexible
- Great for pulling read-only tables into write-enabled databases
#### Syntax
- CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE database.table as (stuff);
- DROP TABLE table;
- INSERT INTO table(column) VALUES (value), (value), (value), ...;
- UPDATE table SET column = value + 25;
- DELETE FROM table WHERE ...; (this works without WHERE clause, deletes entire table's contents)
- ALTER TABLE table DROP COLUMN column;
- ALTER TABLE table ADD column (value type);

## Python lessons
- Data types: bool, str, int, float, list, dict, NoneType
- - bool(0) returns False, bool(1) returns True
### Cool things
- "a" in "banana" returns True
- print(string, int) converts the int to str and adds a space between string and int. Don't need to print("string " + str(int))
- {} performs simple operations in distressed conditions, great with formatted strings. Formatted string example: print(f"here is my string that takes {number} and multiplies it by two which is {number * 2}")
- Slice: [0:3], [2:], [:-1] (works with str and list)
- list[0][0] returns first char of first string in list
- string[0] returns first char of string
### String methods
- JupyterNB: can use TAB to check available methods
- - Example: string.lower() can be found with string. + TAB
- string.count("a") returns number of "a" in string
- "b a n a n a".split(" ") returns list of each letter using the " " delimiter
- delimiter.join(list) returns a string from the list with the delimiter spacer
- string.strip() deletes left/right whitespace, new lines, and tabs
- string.isnumeric() checks for a string comprised of numbers
### Lists
- A grouping of values, created with []
- Can hold any data type including list and dict
- - list containing list is two-dimensional data (a spreadsheet)
- JupyterNB: use TAB to check available methods, list. + TAB
- List comprehensions and operations: return [n + 1 for n in numbers], return [n + 10 for n % 2 == 0 in numbers]
- - List comprehension only returns affected items; to preserve original list's unaffected items in return use [output if condition else output for item in list]
### Dictionaries
- A labeled list, created with {}, uses key:value pairs (each pair should be considered its own variable)
- JupyterNB: can use TAB to check available methods, dictionary. + TAB
- dict.keys() returns keys, dict.values() returns values
- dict[0] returns first entry in the dictionary, dict[0][key] returns the value for the key in the first entry
### Tuples
- A list that can't change (a constant variable for a grouping), uses () instead of []
- Often returned from functions
- - return sum(numbers), avg ----- returns tuple (sum, avg)
- tuple[0] returns first item in tuple like normal
- enumerate() works with tuples
- - for x in enumerate(four_values): print(x) ---- (0, value1) (1, value2) (2, value3) (3, value4)

## JupyterNB
### Basic usage
- Kernel > Restart and Clear Output to restart the shell without any cells having yet ran; Stop shell then start again for troubleshooting
- Option+Clickdrag to create vertical multi-cursor
- Command Mode uses Z for undo-cell operations, Edit Mode uses Command + Z.
- ESC from Edit mode into Command mode; RETURN from Command mode into Edit mode
- Shift+RETURN to run a cell
- Other Command mode shortcuts: dd to delete cell; y to change cell to Code; m to change cell to Markdown


## Statistics Notes
- zscore = ( x - population_mean ) / standard_deviation
- zscore = ( x - avg(x) ) / std(x)

Commit message:

add output formatting and functions notes

ds_notes.md, after:

# My notes for the Codeup Data Science course

## Foundational Knowledge
- AI vs ML vs DL: Machine Learning is a model adjustment tool that observes data, makes predictions using a model, and adjusts the model to make better predictions. The code to set this up is written by humans. Machine Learning is not entirely separate from AI- AI is an umbrella term for the automated handling of conditionals. Deep Learning is a specific application of Machine Learning that involves three or more layers of hidden (not human-designed) neural network nodes- the flexibility of Deep Learning allows systems to adjust to input in ways that humans can’t precisely code themselves.
- Parameters, hyperparameters, features, targets: A feature is an input, a parameter is a machine- or human-set portion of a model, and a target is the output. Hyperparameters are human adjustments to a model in order to help it better reach the correct target.

## CLI:
- Access the MySQL database (-p prompts for password): -u username -p -h IP-address
- code filename.filetype 
- - opens VS Code with specified file (creates new one if not exist)
- JupyterNB issues... You can use Command + T to open tabs in Terminal so you don't have to stop JupyterNB processes

## SQL
### Basic Syntax
- show databases;
- use database_name;
- show tables;
- describe table_name;
- select column_name from table_name;
- - you can select * from table_name, or specify multiple columns
- - you can filter to an entry using WHERE, select * from table_name where condition_statment
- - you can also create aliases for columns, select column_name AS Column from table_name;
### Functions
- SUBSTR(string, index, step_number)
- - index starts before the position is read (first character is at index 1), step_number = 1 reads one character from index
### WHERE
- Used to filter the database with conditional statements before the data is pulled down
- Great for simple conditionals and also allows subqueries
### ORDER BY
- Used to order the output column by ASC or DESC order
- - DESC is reverse-alphabetical (Z is first)
- - DESC is highest-to-lowest number
### GROUP BY
- Analyze records (rows) based on specified column
- Used to run aggregate functions on multiple records based on similar value in the column 
- - aggregate functions: avg(), min(), max(), std(), etc
- - avg(numbers_column) would return average of all values
- - select numbers_column, avg(numbers_column) from numbers GROUP BY numbers_column would return nothing very useful, it would return each unique number's average (average of 5 is 5)
### JOIN
- Used to temporarily merge tables on a similar column
- INNER uses AND logic, LEFT / RIGHT use OR logic and prepend/append, the FROM table is indicated LEFT or RIGHT
- ON vs USING() - ON preserves the linked key while USING() merges the linked keys into one column
- - use the USING() function to merge same-name columns, but this will throw an error if two tables have more than one similar column name
### SUBQUERIES
- Flexible tool to return a query's results to a query
- Often used in WHERE clause, example: WHERE emp_no IN (SELECT emp_no FROM employees WHERE to_date > curdate())
### CASE 
- Used to temporarily create a column from scratch with conditional assignment of records
- uses WHEN condition THEN append new info ELSE append new info END AS new column name
- use CASE in SELECT statement
### HAVING
- Used to filter after records are extracted/sliced
- - Example: With GROUP BY colname, only show a few of the rows
- to filter results to a specific THEN. example: HAVING item_type = 'Specialty Item'
### Temporary Tables
#### Overview
- Used to create a new table, very flexible
- Great for pulling read-only tables into write-enabled databases
#### Syntax
- CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE database.table as (stuff);
- DROP TABLE table;
- INSERT INTO table(column) VALUES (value), (value), (value), ...;
- UPDATE table SET column = value + 25;
- DELETE FROM table WHERE ...; (this works without WHERE clause, deletes entire table's contents)
- ALTER TABLE table DROP COLUMN column;
- ALTER TABLE table ADD column (value type);

## Python lessons
- Data types: bool, str, int, float, list, dict, NoneType
- - bool(0) returns False, bool(1) returns True
### Cool things
- "a" in "banana" returns True
- print(string, int) converts the int to str and adds a space between string and int. Don't need to print("string " + str(int))
- {} performs simple operations in distressed conditions, great with formatted strings. Formatted string example: print(f"here is my string that takes {number} and multiplies it by two which is {number * 2}")
- Slice: [0:3], [2:], [:-1] (works with str and list)
- list[0][0] returns first char of first string in list
- string[0] returns first char of string
### String methods
- JupyterNB: can use TAB to check available methods
- - Example: string.lower() can be found with string. + TAB
- string.count("a") returns number of "a" in string
- "b a n a n a".split(" ") returns list of each letter using the " " delimiter
- delimiter.join(list) returns a string from the list with the delimiter spacer
- string.strip() deletes left/right whitespace, new lines, and tabs
- string.isnumeric() checks for a string comprised of numbers
### Lists
- A grouping of values, created with []
- Can hold any data type including list and dict
- - list containing list is two-dimensional data (a spreadsheet)
- JupyterNB: use TAB to check available methods, list. + TAB
- List comprehensions and operations: return [n + 1 for n in numbers], return [n + 10 for n % 2 == 0 in numbers]
- - List comprehension only returns affected items; to preserve original list's unaffected items in return use [output if condition else output for item in list]
### Dictionaries
- A labeled list, created with {}, uses key:value pairs (each pair should be considered its own variable)
- JupyterNB: can use TAB to check available methods, dictionary. + TAB
- dict.keys() returns keys, dict.values() returns values
- dict[0] returns first entry in the dictionary, dict[0][key] returns the value for the key in the first entry
### Tuples
- A list that can't change (a constant variable for a grouping), uses () instead of []
- Often returned from functions
- - return sum(numbers), avg ----- returns tuple (sum, avg)
- tuple[0] returns first item in tuple like normal
- enumerate() works with tuples
- - for x in enumerate(four_values): print(x) ---- (0, value1) (1, value2) (2, value3) (3, value4)
### Output formatting
- Use .format() to make a table like in the following example
- - print(" stuff | stuff | stuff ")
- - print("-------|-------|-------")
- - print(f"|{:<8}|{:<8}|{:<8}|".format(stuff, stuff, stuff)
- lambda: list.sort(key=lambda x: len(item)) ----- sorts based on length of each item
### Functions
- Parameters and Arguments: Parameter is the shell, Argument is the value put in the shell.

## JupyterNB
### Basic usage
- Kernel > Restart and Clear Output to restart the shell without any cells having yet ran; Stop shell then start again for troubleshooting
- Option+Clickdrag to create vertical multi-cursor
- Command Mode uses Z for undo-cell operations, Edit Mode uses Command + Z.
- ESC from Edit mode into Command mode; RETURN from Command mode into Edit mode
- Shift+RETURN to run a cell
- Other Command mode shortcuts: dd to delete cell; y to change cell to Code; m to change cell to Markdown


## Statistics Notes
- zscore = ( x - population_mean ) / standard_deviation
- zscore = ( x - avg(x) ) / std(x)
